Performance Max, Dynamic Search Ads, and
now AI Max. Google keeps giving us new
tools, but they aren't telling us the
whole story on how to use them. Now, you
clicked this video because you wanted to
know the unpopular truth about AI Max.
So, here it is. There's a hidden flaw in
AI Max that can silently break your
entire campaign structure, and there's
nothing new about that. We've heard that
with dynamic search ads before, and if
you don't know about it, I'll share it
later. But while Google pushes it as a
simple upgrade, just clicking on a
button, enabling AI Max's core features
can actually make your high performing
campaigns start bidding on low
performing generic keywords, basically
wasting your money and limiting smart
bidding. And that might be a problem for
you. But, and this is important, this
does not mean you should ignore AIAX
completely. In fact, there's a very
specific and slightly strange way to set
it up that avoids this flaw while still
preparing you for Google's AI future. So
stick with me because by the end of this
video, I'm going to show you exactly the
setup that I'm now using and you'll be
surprised to learn that it actually
involves using the oldest campaign type
on this list still. But let's start with
a rundown of the three campaign types
we'll cover today.
So performance max, it targets all of
Google's channels: search, shopping,
display, video, Gmail, and discover. It
offers virtually no keyword control and
it functions as a standalone campaign
type. Then there's dynamic search ads.
It's the oldest of these campaign types.
It targets a search the search network
only. It does not use any generative AI.
It creates ads by pulling headlines
directly from your page titles and it
matches search terms to your website
content automatically to try to find out
where should it post the ads. Now, this
is a keywordless technology. So when we
all go crazy when we hear the word
keywordless technology, Google's been
using it for years and it's also part of
standard shopping. Jumping over to AIAX,
it is the newest campaign type.
Essentially, it's DSA on steroids. It
will review landing pages to figure out
what search terms or search queries
should you show ads for. Just like with
dynamic search ads, what it also does is
that it will also analyze your existing
keywords and ad copy to figure out what
search terms also show for. So, it's not
just the content on your website. It is
also going to go in and figure out what
keywords are do you already have and
what do you write in your ads. Now, this
functions as an add-on to your existing
search campaigns and is not a standalone
campaign type unlike dynamic search ads
and performance max which are standalone
campaign types. Now, it also features
generative AI that writes ads from
scratch based on your page content,
based on your previous ad content, on
user search behavior. Does that mean
whatever Google people can search for
get in the ads? That's a little bit
vague at the moment, but I doubt that's
what's going to be, but I'm a little bit
worried. Now, considering Google's
campaign types, let's talk a little bit
about campaign overlap. So, it's
important to understand how all these
different campaigns interact with each
other because just launching Pmax,
dynamic searches, and having ARAX
enabled in your existing search
campaigns might be too much. These
campaigns generally serve different
purposes and shouldn't be run
simultaneously. I have some different
thoughts around that towards the end,
but I try not to over complicate things
here in the beginning. Now, let's start
with Pmax because it's the simplest
thing to talk about. If you're running a
full PMAX campaign strategy for
e-commerce, then you basically don't
need anything else. AMAX functionality
is already integrated into PMAX. So
running a separate AMX campaign or a
search campaign with AMX involved like
that's what it is provides basically no
additional benefit outside the fact that
I generally recommend running standal
standalone search campaigns instead of
relying on pmax. But again if you're
fully bought into the pmax setup then
there is no need to also do an ax. You
already have it access to the
functionality inside of pmax. The same
thing I'll say that if you're running a
full PMAX setup and you want to run a
dynamic search ads, then dynamic search
ads is redundant. This is the same thing
with AIAX because it's already included
when you have Pmax with full assets.
Now, if you're running a feed only PMAX
strategy, then you do need a
complimentary search strategy or you're
not hitting anything. And that's really
where the decision comes down to. Will
you use a dynamic search ads campaign or
will you use dedicated search campaigns
with AIAX enabled which we'll cover
next? I just wanted to clear this out
completely. If you run a full PMAX
campaign, then you don't need the AIAX
or dynamic search ads. If you run search
campaigns with AIAX enabled, then you
don't need dynamic search ads per se. So
that's it. So the real question becomes,
should you run AIAX or dynamic search
ads? Now there are some nuances to this
but seeing that AI max will be able to
uh en the way to enable AI ads and AI
mode and AI overview on Google then I
don't see how we can not run AI max or
how we can not enable it. It therefore
becomes more of a question of how do you
navigate the problems that AIAX comes
with because there are some problems
then whether or not you should just run
one or the other. Now, before we get
into the problems with AMAX, I want to
highlight an aspect of dynamic search
ads that I'm going to miss a lot when we
switch over to AMAX or when you switch
over to AMAX. And this has to do with
page feeds and URL and content
exclusions. Even though it's not my
go-to way to use dynamic search ads,
then for high skew stores, page feeds
and URL/content exclusions are key to
keeping dynamic search ads efficient.
Now, let me just show you here again a
data feed is there here where we can go
in. We have some data feeds that we've
uploaded quite a while ago and we have
the exact page URLs with the different
custom labels that we want our dynamic
search ads to target. And this way we're
able to actually just create different
ad groups that target different parts of
the the site. And that way we're able to
focus a little bit more because again
for this particular
ad group structure we wanted to split
out the performance and there's certain
categories on the site we actually don't
want to target. Page feeds can be used
to tailor where dynamic search ads
should go. And this is especially useful
when it's easier to tell dynamic search
ads what pages do I want to advertise
for instead of going well don't go here
don't go here don't go here. An example
of this is if you have a big big store,
big e-commerce store, then categories or
brand pages where 80% of the products
are out of stock. We know that's not
going to convert very well. Then we can
have a page feed where we just include
all the category pages with products
that are in stock, for instance. Now, if
we get over to the URL/content
exclusions, there technically the
opposite. This is where we say these are
specifically things that we don't want
to include. At the current point in
time, there's no way for to do the same
thing with AI Max when it comes to the
content exclusion. There is URL
exclusion, so that's a nice thing. But
think of product pages where the text
says it's out of stock or it's in
pre-order or any other pages that we
don't want to advertise for. Out of the
box, like I said, we don't get the same
exact control with AIAX, but there's
some control I just want to just walk
through. We have this thing called final
URL expansion, and we can enable or
disable it. If you disable URL
expansion, then AIAX will not expand
into other URLs than your ad or keyword
URLs. This basically means that you take
the dynamic search ads benefits out of
AIAX as it will no longer cover URLs
that you're not actively advertising
for. And I have a tough time seeing how
when you disable final URL expansion,
what's the difference between running
AMAX and having broad match in your
campaign? I think it will be very, very
similar. Then there's the feature called
URL inclusion. You might think that this
is the same as a page feed and it is
relevant to it, but I just don't see the
purpose for using URL inclusion in ecom.
And the reason why I say ecom is because
I haven't thought about it for other
industries. But if you're not
advertising for a URL, why would you add
them to a IMAX? Uh let's say a
subcategory for running shoes. If I
don't have it somewhere in my campaign,
why would I add them to a like to AMAX
through URL inclusion? I just don't see
it. Maybe there's some use case that I'm
not thinking of. Please put it in the
comments, but I just can't picture a
campaign structure where where that's
done. And then there's URL in exclusion.
This is one I do think can be useful,
especially excluding low performing
URLs. We know that that's something we
have to do in dynamic search ads.
However, again, it doesn't appears to be
super scalable as it currently doesn't
use page feed. So that's just a problem
that I have overall with the way the AMX
is going to be because we we've learned
this from dynamic search ads that having
URL and content exclusions is really
something that's important uh to remove
any low performing pages. Now let's jump
over to my biggest problem with AMAX
because believe it or not it's not that
we don't have page feeds. So it's going
to create a mess with your campaign
structure. It's the same reason why I
never bought into having dynamic search
ad ad groups enabled in my existing
search campaigns. Dynamic search ads
could quickly turn a campaign focused on
a specific keyword category into any
type of keyword it want. So if we look
at it this way where we say we have
three different types of keywords. Let's
say we're targeting Nike running shoes,
Nike marathon shoes, Nike crossfit
shoes, and we want to just focus this
campaign on Nike. then it there's no way
for me to say that AIAX will not expand
the campaign to show for CrossFit shoes
or shoes for weightlifting or duffel bag
for the for gym if those keywords can be
found in the URLs that are in the
campaign. And that's going to be a
problem because a high ROS campaign like
Nike if we sell Nike shoes will then
allow AIAX to bid higher for lower
performing search terms that we haven't
even added to the campaign. Now, if this
is just in general, then that might be a
good thing. And overall, it's not a huge
deal. But if you just take a very simple
example, then for some e-commerce
businesses, there are keyword categories
we just don't want to bid for. Let's say
in this particular case, I don't want to
bid for CrossFit shoes or there's an
entire bucket of keywords like category
keywords, crossfit shoes, running shoes,
etc. I don't want to bid for because
historically they've never performed for
me. Then by enabling AAX, I can't
control for this. And this is where
smart bidding starts becoming annoying
because smart bidding will bid for
everything. So it it's not I can't close
it off. In my opinion, match types are
already ruining ad group structure and
now AIAX will ruin your campaign
structure. The only solution is to do
strict negative keywords to avoid cross
cannibalization. But that's also super
bad idea. Like I've covered in another
video. It's a workaround that's just not
going to hold up. It's not going to work
and it's just going to ruin things. So
it's going to be a necessary evil to
work with with AI Max. And I have and
we're just going to trust that AMAX and
smart bidding can handle it. Another
issue I have with AMAX is that is this
text asset generation also known as this
is when it writes the ads. Now there are
s there are simply not enough controls
built in that it's a good idea at this
point in time. I can foresee a scenario
where AIAX write an ad where it says
save 48% because one product is on sale
in a category and says save 48%. And
that headline will then take all the
spend because the CTR is the highest but
conversion rates will be really low. So
in general, I don't recommend turning on
text asset generation. Basically
allowing AI max to write headlines
unless you don't touch that part at all.
Optimizing your ads with new assets is a
good thing and letting the AI do it if
you never do it is better than not at
all in general until you see it
absolutely ruining something. So, what's
the recommended setup? I have three
different scenarios. Scenario number
one, again, like I've said, if you use
Pmax with a full asset setup, then you
don't have to do anything different than
what you're doing today. The second one
is that if you're not using dynamic
search ads already, then enable AI max,
but do not enable final URL expansion.
This allows the keyword as targeting to
work. It allows you to get into the AI
mode and AI overview, but you don't
advertise for landing pages that you
aren't already advertising for. You can
then test enabling final URL expansion.
Again, if you have a very very big site,
then it's a net positive to use dynamic
search as it more or less always have
been, especially combined with smart
bidding. So, I think it will be a net
positive for you. However, if you are
using dynamic search ads today, then it
becomes a little bit more tricky. But I
then in my case, I just enable AI mode.
I don't use final URL expansion. And
it's basically like turning on broad
match in the campaign. I will leave the
fallback part of finding URLs that I'm
not currently advertising for and very
very longtail keywords. I'll leave that
as a dynamic search ads like I always
have, but I'll take more of the broader
search queries and keep in my current
campaigns. Again, it's not a perfect
scenario and I can't find a way to get
around this ruining of the campaign
structure. So, it's just going to be
something we're going to have to live
with. So now I know I started the video
with saying that you that you have no
use for dynamic search ads if you enable
AMAX and that's technically still true
but until Google have found a better way
to show me that the text ad generation
is really good and say I search for a
pair of CrossFit shoes for plants
fasciitis that have a little bit of arch
support then it will be perfect that it
can actually show that in the ad
specifically for that that I can see a
huge use case for but until it shows me
that I'm not going to enable that part
but I do foresee a future where enabling
Air Max fully will actually provide
quite substantial performance increases
is just not quite there yet as of 2025
and I believe this goes into early 2026
as well. But having this setup where we
enable AI max uh in the campaign but we
don't take on final URL expansion. We do
not add text ad generation. It allows us
uh to use AI max to target more AI
queries and it allows DSA to continue be
this fallback campaign. So, let me know
how you're using a IMAX and if you can
see any issues with what I'm doing so
far. AMAX is still new for a lot of us,
so please let your thoughts be. If
you're into practical PPC insights that
you can actually help you, then
subscribe. I share tips, breakdowns, and
call out what's working and what's not.
No fluff, just the stuff that you can
use every single week.